---
title: music
description: i ramble about music
author: zz
date: 2022-02-01T17:57:57.142Z
tags:
  - post
image: /assets/blog/img_1910.jpg
---
hello. music! i could talk about music for hours and i have. i have bored all of my friends by talking about specific albums and production and whatever but i am so strangely passionate about it. it probably goes back to like years ago, when i first became an avid music-listener. the first artist i became obsessed with is taylor swift. i dont know what it was back then but she just had such a hold on me. i first heard her album *red* back when it came out because at the time, my aunt loved her. my aunt used to babysit me a lot so i was listening to a bunch of taylor. seven year old me was screaming *we are never ever getting back together* with my whole chest like i had experienced heartbreak before. 

that's so funny to me but it's also so cool, how music allows you to experience so many emotions, even if you've never felt them before. it allows you to sympathize and connect to the lyrics. like i could be in the best mood and bouncing off of the walls but the second mitski comes on i instantly turn emo. once i hear "im all used up, pretty boy" then my day is just ruined. day = ruined. it's so good but hurts so bad. hurts so good fr! but once i hear a happy song, i start to feel better almost instantly. how can you be sad while listening to jason mraz? that guy singlehandedly made the soundtrack to every single coming-of-age animal movie. but yeah, lyrics are so honest and i feel like they're able to perfectly capture how one feels during whatever situation.

the backing tracks and production also plays a very large role in conveying emotions, obviously. you'll notice that in sadder songs they typically use darker sounds, slower instruments. i don't know enough about this to talk about it but it's a thing, helps you feel emotions, that's it.

i listen to music all the time, most of my day is spent with music actually. whether it's in the background, or i'm just sitting there listening, it's always there. it plays such a large role in so many things, you'd be surprised. at restaurants, there's almost always music. it doesn't matter if it's a cute french song or an instrumental. still music. in coffee shops, there's music. you get the point, it's like everywhere in public as well. 

i love love love music so much. i wouldn't be able to get through the day without music. i haven't stopped listening since probably seventh grade. that's when i really developed my taste. but how do you develop your own music taste rather than just listening to what's on tiktok? sorry, that was a dig at people who gets their music from tiktok trends. i'm awful with that, i hate it. tiktok already makes me feel like .. but man people who get their music from that dumb app is somehow even worse. i'm sorry if you do. but i'm trying to tell you that you don't have to be confined to only that. you're able to easily find other music that you enjoy, without depending on the next tiktok trend making an appearance. so..how do you exactly do that? this is going to sound so pathetic and lame and i'm going to seem no better than tiktok music tastes but the spotify algorithm is amazing. the apple music algorithm isn't as good as spotify's unfortunately but yes. spotify algorithm. essentially, when i do is a compile songs into a playlist. songs that are more or less relatively similar to each other. an example would be like a mitski song and TV girl. both dark sounding, sad. spotify will magically suggest songs similar to the ones already in the playlist and they are amazing. spotify is actually incredible for small and upcoming artists and they will suggest their songs if it fits the criteria. they're not like shit songs either, they're actually good. and if you find a song that you really like, i suggest looking more into that artist and their other songs. if you like one of their songs, i'm sure that they have some similar songs. and from there, you just continue searching for more and more artists and music to expand your playlists. oh, i'd also say that you should try out different genres. you never know. i didn't think i'd like hyperpop but there are some songs by glaive that i find myself enjoying. i recommend *i wanna slam my head against the wall* by glaive if you want to try out hyperpop, it's a pretty solid song and not too much.

but now that we're here, music recs. who would i be if i didn't tell you all about the songs that i recommend! i'll make a list to make it easier.

easy listens:

* less than zero by the weeknd
* wait a minute by WILLOW
* futon by ula
* don't be a fool by dreamer boy

sad songs:

* bag of bones by mitski
* real estate by adam melchor
* writer in the dark by lorde
* looking out for you by joy again

happy songs:

* blind by ROLE MODEL
* daylight by taylor swift
* summertime in paris by jaden, WILLOW
* kiss her you fool by kids that fly

my favorite simp songs:

* HEAD OVER HEELS by loveleo
* paper rings by taylor swift
* feel u by okayceci
* stargazing by the neighbourhood

good beat:

* DID I RLY LET GO by whales•talk
* double take by dhruv
* my favorite part by mac miller, ariana grande
* pretty lips by WINEHOUSE

favorite rap:

* LUMBERJACK by tyler, the creator
* sky by playboi carti
* WHAT'S GOOD by tyler, the creator
* REEL IT IN by aminé



that is a pretty good overview for music recommendations. bye