---
title: spring
description: winter finally gone. so happy
author: me
date: 2022-03-05T01:09:50.452Z
tags:
  - post
image: /assets/blog/on_twitter_1200x900.png
---
spring. i look forward to it while also dreading it. i only slightly dread it because i used to have terrible spring allergies growing up. my eyes would water so much in my sleep that i would wake up with my eyes sealed shut. i missed twenty days of school one spring season. and that was on top of the constantly irritated, watery eyes during the day. however, once i got to fifth grade, my allergies suddenly went away. after years of suffering and taking my chewable grape claritin, i was free. the only sign of allergies i get now is sneezing a bit at the start of spring but apart from that, it's amazing.

amazing because winter is finally gone. i hate winter with a burning passion. i used to get awful seasonal depression and the toll it used to take on me almost disappeared. i still have hard weeks sometimes but i'm usually able to distract myself. even without that, i still hate winter. it's the weather. i never cared much for snow after i passed the age of ten. to me, it was cold, wet, and miserable. and it is, as is winter. i am so relieved that i've made it through another winter season.

spring also marks that the school year is almost over. kind of scary for me though. college is soon. i need to take my sats. aaah. tiny scream. honestly that is a small price to pay. when the weather is warmer, i'm happier.

cute outfits too. spring break. prom. summer approaching. no more cold weather!

i felt like this was important to discuss