---
title: met gala 22
description: so many outfits flopped
author: me
date: 2022-05-04T22:45:05.054Z
tags:
  - post
image: /assets/blog/101_cats_wearing_sunglasses_1200x900.jpeg
---
it feels like the last met gala just happened and that's not completely untrue. it had just happened in september because covid had postponed it but this year it happened on the first monday of may, as usual. i was very excited to see all of the outfits but..so many outfits were completely off theme or just horrifically ugly. however, there were a few (very few) that hit the mark and slayed! the theme was gilded glamour which essentially draws inspiration from new york's gilded age. it's meant to draw attention to dress designers and historically iconic dresses.

a great example of this would be kim kardashian's met gala look. she wore marilyn monroe's actual dress when she sang happy birthday to jfk. because the dress was such an iconic piece, no alterations were allowed to be made. that being said, kim had to lose sixteen pounds in order to fit into the dress. that's so crazy but her efforts weren't for nothing because that definitely fit the theme.

two celebrities that 100% fit the theme would be cardi b and billie eilish. billie opted for a victorian-style dress that still carried her signature style. if she was able to do it i literally do not understand why other celebrities were unable to keep with the theme. cardi b was very obviously influenced by the word "gilded" and how that means gold, regal, and glamourous and that is so cool.

the kardashians (apart from kim) kind of flopped. kendall looked good but her 2019 look was so much better. overall it was a pretty disappointing met gala year but there's always next year. i feel like the met gala is kind of getting lost though. the celebrities invited are honestly just mannequins for the designers to show off their latest and boldest designs, no matter how far from the theme it is.